if you're over 40 you need to start a
YouTube channel not only do you need to
start one you need to focus on it you
suck at Instagram and Tik Tok I can say
that because I'm your same age this has
been the most rewarding and fulfilling
social media experiment of my adult life
why I started one and if you're over 50
what do you waiting for the time is now
to start your YouTube channel if you're
over 60 if you're 70 this is a gold mine
for you why am I telling you this
because there's an incredible
opportunity and you're missing out the
place to be right now is YouTube and let
me explain some of the reasons why you
need to start a YouTube
channel by the way my name is shelene
Johnson I'm the co-host of build your
tribe with my son Brock Johnson thank
you so much for tuning in you're
thinking it's something that's going to
be much harder than you have time for or
that you know maybe you've struggled in
other areas of social media and you're
like ah it just it seems like
everybody's like really young and the
jump cuts the eding the thumbnails like
all the Mr Beast of it all like I don't
think I would be successful and I'm here
to tell you you will be this platform
right now is having a Resurgence and we
people who are over 40 50 60 70 are
desperate to learn from creators like
you I mean there there's a boatload
there's a plethora of creators who are
in their 20s you know in their teens and
20s and 30s and even in their you know
early 40s but the older demographics are
spending time on YouTube that's why
you're here we love YouTube we our age
group we're desperate for longer form
content like the quick one minute videos
it's like uh you after a certain point
you just start to feel like okay I'm
going to have a seizure it's so much and
you don't feel like you're making any
connections you don't feel like you're
actually understanding something it just
kind of makes you feel crazy the short
form content you know like Instagram and
Tik Tok Etc and by the way I'm going to
hold your hand in the most loving of
ways as I say this to you you suck at
Instagram and Tik Tok I can say that
because I'm your same age and maybe
you're great at it but most of us are
not great at it and the reason why is
because we are don't take this the wrong
way if you're like in your 30s and for
some reason you're still watching but
we're more real I'm sorry like a lot of
this stuff that the younger Generations
are making in the short form content I'm
like this is
so fake and it's so highly produced and
it's so edited and I know because my son
and I you're watching this right now on
a channel called build your tribe and
it's a YouTube channel that I started
with my son um but I'm going to talk to
you about two different channels and I'm
going to explain to you
why this has been the most rewarding and
fulfilling social media experiment of my
adult life why I started one and this is
probably a reason you've not heard when
you've watched any other video on like
why you should start a YouTube channel
over 40 over 50 over 60 but before I do
that I just have to say that so much of
the content that's out there the short
form content is so highly produced so
edited that when I meet the people in
person which I do because as I mentioned
my son and I we teach social media we
teach Instagram to people who are my age
and my God every this is so bad to say
but I'm just going to be honest like
whenever I do an audit I'm like I don't
know I don't know if this age group is
ever going to get
Instagram because it's so foreign to us
the idea of like chopping and cutting
and editing and pretending and
the filters and all the thing and the
captions and the b-roll all these things
like right now you haven't seen any of
that and you're paying
attention and you're going to watch this
video all the way to the end probably I
mean maybe that's presumptuous but the
reason why is we are desperate for
someone to talk a little slower to
connect with us to explain things to
finish their thought to complete the
idea to answer the questions we don't
want another like like and follow for
part two well part one was only 2
minutes long like what what do you think
I have all day so I I go to these social
media conferences a lot of times where
like my son or myself will be speaking
and I meet these other creators these
creators have like you know tens of
thousands sometimes millions of
followers on Instagram or Tik Tok and
dude I'm here to tell
you they're a different person in real
in real life so many of them it's like a
blink stare they can't connect the same
way they're like so engaging and and
funny and entertaining and you know
everything's like quick and very
creative on these short form social
media platforms Tik Tok Instagram but
then when you meet them in person it's
like you realize what they are is an
edited version of who they wish they
were but we're different we're different
yeah we're different right we just like
we don't even know how to do that we we
don't we you're just real and that's
what people are desperate for in our
demographic on YouTube and because so
many people in this demographic are
afraid to put themselves out there
because they're like I have gray hair
I've got wrinkles I've got blah blah
blah like all the reasons why I'm not
would if somebody leaves a comment and
says what are you doing on there old
lady good engage with them you know give
them a spanking send them to the room
and tell them that their their mother
would be so disappointed because she
raised them to have better manners like
have fun with it who cares like they're
not paying your mortgage it's a child
it's an infant it's a it's a newborn
baby like who really cares
frankly the place to be right now is
YouTube and let me explain some of the
reasons why you need to start a YouTube
channel I'm going to cover a bunch of
them and I'm going to validate them and
I'm going to tell you some reasons why
you probably shouldn't so that you know
okay I need to do this first I want to
explain why I started one so as I said I
teach Instagram I have a podcast I have
a Tik Tok I've had a YouTube for you
know a lot like probably since YouTube
first started and it was like Flatline
it was like nothing and I kept trying I
kept trying to do all the things that
the other like young kids are doing on
YouTube and I would go at it for like a
couple of weeks or maybe even a couple
of months and crickets and it just it
felt like so much freaking work you know
I'm like oh God the camera the people
that edit it the whole like writing a
script and that not I got to figure out
a teleprompter I was making it way way
way too hard and I also didn't see the
point of it because I'm like you know
the action is on Instagram the action is
on Facebook the action is on Tik Tok the
isn't YouTube like for young kids isn't
it for I don't know it hasn't been
around forever like and I would look at
how much work I thought it would take to
grow a YouTube channel so I would try
every once in a while and it it wouldn't
go
anywhere but mainly it wasn't going
anywhere because I was trying to be
someone something I was trying to create
content that looked like everybody
else's
content and I knew what I was looking
for on YouTube I was looking for
somebody who was like a a girly my age
who didn't act all like buttoned up you
know what I'm saying like I'm sorry no
offense but there are so few creators
older creators
who act like friends like who say like
and and um speak off the cuff and
sometimes they cuss and they they're fun
and they're real and they're raw like
sorry but I felt like there're very few
creators in the older age demographics
who are freaking fun like let loose but
I know they're fun in real life so what
has happened in the last couple of years
is the creators over 50 even even 60 who
are legitimately
real and not putting on this like phony
act are crushing it like it's so much
fun to be myself and to let you judge
the fact that I love a lot of makeup and
I love I love a lot of jewelry all of
this is an aftermarket upgrade like
there's nothing real here like the hair
is purchased the lashes aren't mine the
nails aren't mine like you know what I'm
saying like none of the jewels are real
all of it's fake but my heart is real so
when I'm speaking to you you're getting
me so I have another channel it's called
Uh shellene Johnson this is build your
tribe if you haven't already you should
subscribe because this is where you're
going to get content from myself and my
son the Channel that I started a long
time ago is the shellim Johnson channel
it's the one that I struggled with so
much and then when I just started saying
like screw it I'm just going to I'm just
going to figure out what I want to talk
about and talk about it and I didn't
have a goal other than like I want to
have fun and I don't want to put
pressure on myself because all the other
platforms I feel like I have to be
niched down and I have to like promote
stuff that goes towards a sales funnel
or has you know and I just was like
YouTube I've had it for forever it's
never worked so I'm just going to go at
it and have fun okay so recently I did
this video that I was like oh my God I'm
going to get so much hate for this but I
don't care because some of my girlies
the ones who you know get it like me um
or get me I should say they're going to
find this video and I'm going to be real
upfront and I'm going to tell you okay
this video is not for you if you're like
an allnatural kind of girl who's like I
want to age gracefully I'm letting my
hair grow out gray that's great more
power to you I don't want to wear all
the makeup and I don't want to do Botox
awesome congratulations I do and I want
to talk about it and I want to tell you
all the things and so I made a video
like that knowing I was going to you
know alienate some people but I was also
going to attract people who were also so
like yes finally like tell us girl tell
us all the things right and there was a
woman this is my favorite thing there's
a woman who commented under it she's
like shalim you won't remember me I met
you in a bathroom at 24-Hour Fitness in
Houston Texas almost 20 plus years ago
and I just have to say I'm watching this
video of you right now you were getting
changed in the 24-Hour Fitness bathroom
you just finished doing a Fitness
certification and you were like trying
to catch a flight and she was like I
just have to to say I had such a good
time talking to you you are the exact
same person that I met in that bathroom
like 25 years ago and I'm like that's so
validating you know what I mean
because sometimes people will say like
you know in order to stay relevant you
have to reinvent yourself no you don't
Reinventing yourself sounds like you're
making something up no I'm I've always
been who I am and people our age I think
that's the thing is like if you know you
get to a certain age where you're like I
just know who I am but I might be into
different things so you can call that
Reinventing you can call that rebranding
I don't I'm just putting out the new
thing that I'm interested in and we're
not
one-dimensional you know at the time
that that woman met me I was into high
impact kickboxing and growing my
business and my children were young but
I'm still the same me my heart is the
same my voice is the same my values are
the same my passions are the same um I I
look 25 years older no I don't I mean I
do look older but you know what I'm
saying like I'm Wiser and I care less
about what people think but I still care
and that was such a compliment and this
is the other reason why you need to
start a YouTube channel because you're
at an age now where you're like I just
know who I am you need to start a
YouTube channel if you're interested in
like finding your people and you're you
like to talk and you don't need um a
script
or maybe you want a script that's fine
too I mean I can work off bullets
sometimes I do that am I working off of
bullets today I should probably check my
bullets and make sure that I'm covering
all the reasons why you need to start a
YouTube channel but the other reason why
I wanted to do
this is I have a podcast it's called the
shelene show and there came a point in
time which where I'm like you know after
50 I'm 56 now it was probably around
53 54 where I was like I'm kind of sick
of
my direction like the business that I'm
currently in like I'm kind of bored with
it and I kind of want to just talk about
girly things I want to talk about I want
to talk about hormones I want to talk
about menopause I want to talk about
health I want to talk about longevity I
want to talk about like all the things
that women are Whispering about but we
just don't have enough information and I
also want to talk about Botox and I also
want to talk about skincare and I also
want to talk about jewelry and I also
want to talk about um you know igniting
passion and having great sex with my
husband after a certain age like I want
to talk about all these things and also
I want to talk about drama that I find
in reality TV you know what I mean like
I and all of those things were just
things that are fun that I talked to my
girlfriend about and it that kind of
content was not working on Instagram why
because it's not niched it wasn't
working on Tik Tok because it's not
niched so I'm like I'm going to double
down and I'm going to just create real
content here on YouTube on my other
channel which here's the link to it
we'll put it in this video I'll also put
it below in our show notes and I would
love look if you're already like okay
that's the kind of content I'm looking
for then subscribe if you're looking for
Content about like how to grow your
business and how to build your social
media and email list building and and
funnels and all of those things and
monetizing your business subscribe here
build your tribe they're two separate
channels but I've got a podcast that's
called the shelene show and when I
learned
that 70% of
people discover their favorite podcast
on YouTube I'm like well what am I
doing well then my brain said well yeah
you can't do that because your podcast
you do after hours and you have notes in
front of you and you can do it whenever
you want you don't have to look cute you
can put you know sweatpants on and all
the things that are making easy and if
you do a YouTube you're going to need
special lights and a special camera and
a special microphone and you're going to
need special editing and you're going to
need to like you're going to have to not
make any mistakes when you talk and all
those things and I'm like no I don't and
who cares let me just try so what I
started doing is just by the way I'm not
recording on a special camera I'm
recording on my iPhone I'm recording
this on my iPhone I'm using a program
called
squadcast it's very much like Riverside
or streamyard it's just a you know third
party application it's like Zoom
basically and so I record it it saves to
the cloud so I don't even have to figure
out how to upload it it's it's automatic
it just saves to the cloud and then I
have a virtual assistant who you can
hire on Fiverr f i
vr.com or you can find on upwork.com you
can find someone who they'll just log
into your cloud account they'll edit
your video and you know couple days
later you've got a fully edited video if
you need it to be edited but like this
video right here I'm going to put in a
few Graphics or whatever but I could
edit this easily and I did at first
until I kind of figured out like oh you
know what I don't even have to do that
because that was a cumbersome obstacle
for me is like figuring out okay so how
do how do I upload it and how do I then
upload it to YouTube like all of those
things you do not have to figure that
out for like Pennies on the dollar
there's so many Freelancers in other
countries and even here in the US and or
Canada wherever you're watching who will
do this for because it's so easy for
them they can do it in their sleep where
you and I have to be like okay did I
click the right button what what tags do
I like all those things I don't want to
have to deal with that I just outsourced
it for like nothing there's so many
people that do this it's insane and it's
super duper affordable so affordable
like every day I get I don't know
probably 15 20 messages from someone
who's like I can handle this I will edit
your videos I will make your thumbnails
I will upload your videos I will create
all the tags I'll manage your whole
YouTube account I'm like all we already
got a handle but there's so many people
that do this because it's simple for
them so you don't have to worry about
that you don't need an expensive camera
you don't need expensive lights I will
say for the ladies lighting is important
right because it's going to make you
feel more confident if you've got like
good lighting so I'm happy to share with
you if you want I I can do a whole
another episode Another YouTube video
showing you my setup right now I'm
filming on my iPhone I'm using What's
called the continuity camera it's
something all the newer when I say newer
I think like is it the iPhone 13 and
Beyond have continuity camera it's just
a setting super easy it uses the back
camera it's much higher quality you can
film in 4k I'm I'm bad at the tech stuff
I can never figure out a camera I could
never figure out how to attach a
microphone to it all that stuff no this
is plugged in US USBC to my
laptop you buy a a this is a nice
microphone actually hello nice
microphone this is a sure microphone I
believe but if you look back on some of
my um earlier videos I'm I'm using a
cheap microphone and I'm using a
portable light that I travel like a lot
of times I'm just filming in our hotel
room cuz we travel a lot so it doesn't
interfere with my life it it's not hard
it wasn't
expensive because our demographic wants
it easy mode we want it easy mode we
don't want it highly produced we don't
want Flying Graphics we don't want all
the b-roll we don't want all the we're
like just it makes us feel a little
suspicious like I can't trust you it's
almost like you know you're wiping away
all the fog to see like what's real here
our age wants it real less produced less
fake you know what I mean I mean no take
no offense if you like the super edited
videos but easy mode is the way to go
I've done a whole video on what I mean
by easy mode and why easy mode on
YouTube for creators who are over 40 is
crushing right now like in preparation
for this video I just probably typed in
the same thing you did like over 40
start a YouTube and every person that
popped up they're they're creating easy
mode videos meaning they're not even
using a special thumbnail I've done a
whole video breaking down what I mean
and how easy easy mode is so you can
check out that episode I'll link it here
on YouTube I'll link it below in our
description now if you're new to YouTube
which might be why you're watching this
when you see the description below this
video it it'll just be like a couple of
sentences and then it's truncated it's
shortened so you've got to click on that
and that'll expand the rest of my
description and that's where you'll see
the links that's where you'll see the
links to the other videos I've created
that's where you'll see the link to my
other channel now on my other channel
shellene Johnson it is exploding I
created a video last week that has
already earned me I think $177,000 in
AdSense what what just talking to my
girl you know what I mean like that's
insane to me it's got over a quarter of
a million views what and dude usually
when you get over a 100,000 views the
comments are so rude you know what I
mean you get like weird haters look at
anyone else's Channel that's what's
going on not for our age because we
don't
play so the people are going to be
attracted to your videos it's not going
to be the 20 and 30y
olds it's going to be people our age and
guess guess what we're we're we're grown
adults we're not going to rip another
adult apart I I'm not kidding I've got
thousands of comments and they're all
really positive and nice they're
complimentary they're they're
encouraging and so it's an ego boost you
know what I mean like it's it's
encouraging to find your people so I
know you've probably watched other
YouTube channels and they said you know
start a YouTube channel to to grow your
business to build your brand to create
awareness to start a podcast to create
an extra stream of income to fill your
time like all these different reasons
why you should start a YouTube channel
like to leave a legacy blah blah blah I
don't care what the reason it really
doesn't matter the reason you think you
should start one the answer is you
should and what you need to know is it's
easier than you think you're going to be
far more successful than you realize but
here's my advice to you don't try to do
it the way
the younger kids are doing it do it the
way you would do it you need good
lighting you need to capture our
attention in the first one minute that's
very important you need to have a point
but it doesn't have you don't have to
speak perfectly you don't have to read a
teleprompter in fact I don't think you
should I think the more real and honest
of the videos I watch of creators who
are over 40 50 60 when I look at their
Channel and let's say maybe they have
like 10,000 followers I'll look at a
video where they have like 600,000 views
on one video and I'll look at their
other other videos the one that pops off
is always the one where they're
real so how do you get real on
camera you pretend that you're talking
on FaceTime to your best friend with the
same attitude the same inflection the
same everything that's when you're real
so right now I'm not thinking about
filming a YouTube video I'm talking to
my friend and I'm speaking to her in the
same passion way in the same relaxed way
that I would if we were FaceTiming I'm
not thinking about millions of people
cuz then you it's hard to be yourself
I'm not thinking about a 100 people then
it's hard I'm not thinking about like
the doctor in the audience or the person
who's an attorney or the person I'm not
thinking I'm thinking about one person
who loves me and we love talking and we
have the same interests and the same
hobbies and we're we we're connected and
she gets me and I get her and so when I
think I literally think of her and so
here's a little tip for you when you're
filming on your iPhone it's just like
little adapter that um you know goes on
a magnet on the back of this is an extra
phone um goes on the back of your phone
it Clips on here and it just sits on the
top of my laptop so then on a separate
screen so I can see it on my desktop I
have a photo of the friend who I'm the
most real with and the friend who like
when I see their face I know they adore
me I know that I make them laugh I know
that I keep them entertained right and
so I look at that face I look at that
picture I do this I know it sounds goofy
it works I look at that photo and I'm
like this is I'm just talking to her and
I I get a better product I get a better
video I get a more authentic me it takes
time it takes practice it takes
consistency you don't have to post even
as often as you think you do I thought I
had to post two YouTube videos a week
probably three now I post like maybe
three a month sometimes four a month
like so one a week that comes out on on
Sunday I'd love to make sure you're
subscribed if if if that type of content
is interesting to you to the shellene
show subscribe there that video comes
out every Sunday the one here on build
your tribe my son and I we alternate so
every Thursday you're going to either
get myself or Brock and we're talking to
you about business and I think you'll
really enjoy Brock's content too the
dude is a whiz and he's I created him
well shall I say I co-created him I'm
very proud of my kids
I really am they're super cool my
daughter just started a YouTube channel
too and you know what I love her content
too it's very it's she's doing easy mode
and she's
25 and she's killing it she's killing it
and you're going to be able to monetize
your channel as soon as you have a
thousand followers but like don't even
worry about that just create content
that has a point think about what you're
going to say in the first minute think
about your title first okay think about
what what is the title and then search
the title that you think that going to
go with search it in YouTube so you can
see what other people have done and then
you can sort the videos that you're
searching for sort them according to
views so you can see like okay who's the
what creators are the most popular for
this title and look at what they did in
the first minute you know what I mean if
you're going to not script something but
like if you're going to have bullet
points and it's fine if you want to
script something but like the first
minute yeah shirt like nail it so that
you can hook people and they stay with
you the entirety of the YouTube video
like you just did